docs: Clarify Probe prober path for blackbox-style scrapes (#6727)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/prometheus/prometheus.operator.probes.md

}
```

### Probe with {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} as the blackbox prober

`prometheus.operator.probes` scrapes Probe targets by calling a prober (typically blackbox exporter).
{{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} can act as that prober when you also configure [`prometheus.exporter.blackbox`][blackbox].

> You don't need a separate blackbox-exporter Deployment unless you prefer one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} as your prober to eliminate the need for a separate blackbox-exporter deployment.
```

Rewriting this to take the negative `unless` out and make it active/positive.

Set `spec.prober.url` to the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} HTTP listen address.
Set `spec.prober.path` to the prober endpoint path.

> For blackbox-style probers, the `/probe` endpoint returns probe metrics, while `/metrics` exposes exporter operational metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For blackbox-style probers, the `/probe` endpoint returns probe metrics.
The `/metrics` exposes exporter operational metrics.
```

Small simplification here.

}
```

### Probe with {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} as the blackbox prober

`prometheus.operator.probes` scrapes Probe targets by calling a prober (typically blackbox exporter).
{{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} can act as that prober when you also configure [`prometheus.exporter.blackbox`][blackbox].
You don't need a separate blackbox-exporter Deployment unless you prefer one.

Set `spec.prober` on the Probe resource:

* `url` — host:port of the prober. For the embedded exporter, use the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} HTTP listen address (default port `12345`).
* `path` — HTTP path of the blackbox probe endpoint. For `prometheus.exporter.blackbox`, use:

```text
/api/v0/component/prometheus.exporter.blackbox.<LABEL>/probe
```

> Pointing `spec.prober.url` at the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} UI root without the component path scrapes the wrong endpoint and fails with a non-Prometheus response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set `spec.prober.url` to the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} HTTP listen address.
Set `spec.prober.path` to the prober endpoint path.
For blackbox-style probers, the `/probe` endpoint returns probe metrics, while `/metrics` exposes exporter operational metrics.
```

The original sentence here was ambiguous and was hard to untangle. We could focus on the positive do it this way vs the negative it breaks if you do this

Added a clarification between the two endpoint paths

The `module` field on the Probe must match a module name defined in the `prometheus.exporter.blackbox` `config` or `config_file`.

> Runnable end-to-end examples that need Kubernetes and the Prometheus Operator belong in [alloy-scenarios](https://github.com/grafana/alloy-scenarios) rather than this reference page. See the [contribute guide](https://github.com/grafana/alloy-scenarios#contribute).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Drop this reference. It's not worded correctly, and I'm working on a broader project to refactor the examples and linking to the Alloy Scenarios across all of the component docs. The linking should follow the same style and wording and that hasn't yet been established. This is for a future PR.
